[Music]
How farmer and welcome to another episode of the harvest season my name is Kevin
My name is Cody.
And we are here today to talk about anything other than Z. Yeah
Woooo!
Indeed, I don't have it. I don't think you have it because
No, I, um, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I'm not gonna get it. I'm just gonna say I'm not gonna get it.
Ooh! Mmm.
Um, this is probably the first main series game that I am just straight up skipping.
Okay
I think my mouth's gone a little dry for Pokemon games right now.
That's very fair
Not only because of being busy with else.
But also, it's just not seeing enough innovation.
>> And the last few games that I've played.
I've just been like, I mean, this is kind of just the same thing.
It's like more nostalgic than anything.
Yeah, that's fair
No, I want them to do something different.
Yup, I mean
I'll play the next legends whenever that happens.
Well, yeah, I'm yeah, I'm you know, I can't with the next legends. Whatever. It's gonna be the legend series
I mean, I've heard This game has issues because the Pokemon game because of course it does, but overall, I'm hearing good things about this one And I love Calo, so I love xy So I'm perfectly excited. I haven't gotten yet, but I want to get legends
Mm-hmm
But I get your feeling I mean
no matter how much you care or fan or care about how you enjoy the scarlet while I think scarlet violet was a momentum stopper of sorts because you know even for the biggest fans it still had technical problems or whatever but anyways I get it's a lot of Pokemon they do a lot of things so taking a break that's that's fine I didn't get the DLC for scarlet while I let that's crazy
Mm-hmm
um anyways yes so yeah no z yeah we we're actually we somehow we managed to cap ourselves but
what we are we have plenty of other things to talk about because we got you know the news and stuff and and we I don't know what the timing was it probably just the schedule nothing specific but we're warming up for our award season this year by by you know since we are the authority in capital you know T capital A Tm on on farming games we have decided to award
Right, right.
Earl preemptively or not preemptively earlier in the year award farming game of the year not to this year's contenders or whatever but toward to all the other years we missed the pre harvest season error or at least the pretty whenever we started doing it era
- Mm-hmm.
so we're going back to far as what was it 96 and we're doing all of them
- Yeah, so I think the idea was that Al went back to the,
oh gosh, this is a lot to scroll through.
The harvest man, like the very first SNES harvest moon game,
which is in 1996.
And he just looked at the farming type games that came out each year thereafter.
And, you know, the first.
Episode of the podcast, I think we was in 2019 so we're covering up through 2018 so it's kind of going through the big names we of course were going to miss on we're not able to like know every single farming game that ever came out but I'll did it.
Yes, you know the three hour episode length just multiply that by however many years recovering and that's how long this episode will be
right yeah now this is uh this is a loose it's
especially when I added like the blurbs that I added to try and remember what these games were um yeah it became a long list so that's uh I'm excited to get into it though I'm wondering if we have anything any differing opinions on some of these you know some of the years the options are slim either to zero or to one but uh
The real, you know, the real surprises when there's one, but we won't award it to them.
I actually am I'm considering it I am I'm considering it so yeah that we're doing that we got some game news before that and before before that uh Kevin what do you up to let's look what's going on
You're not good enough.
Oh gosh, it's actually been a week's recorded. It's been a whirlwind week for me. I went to a wedding. That was tight.
Wait, was that this week? Yes, I think it was gosh, I don't remember. Yeah, yeah, it was. That was a disaster. Not on their part. Anyways, okay, game-wise, what have I been up to? I'm honestly not that much because I've been so busy. I've digimoned more, man. So the thing about digimon, the the collecting aspect is...
It's not so much like go out and catch everything.
It's not, you know, just go find all the random encounters.
A lot of it is going up and down the evolutionary trees, because in Digimon games the standard quo is not only do you digivolt to get bigger, but you can also de-digivolt and to get increased stats when you're, you know, when you go smaller and then you can go bigger again in different directions because branching.
And so yeah, that's a part of the quote unquote grind in that game like I'm just going to go out and get some XP and level up a whole bunch of people and devolve them and indeed did evolve and then go in other directions and I don't know I find it very zen and enjoyable and it's also I guess it's a fact that you have like it's clear the goalposts, right?
randomly pulling the slot until I get it's like, no, okay, I need to hit this requirement to get this evolution and so on and so forth. So you do get a little a little bit more control and that's kind of nice. But yeah overall, it's mostly been Digimon and some of my other stuffs and this zone zero got an update. It's been fine. But yeah, that's it nothing terribly interesting. What about you go Cody what's going on?
I'm still doing that old PhD making making moves on that, which is good. I actually saw one of my friends did like a proof of life post for like like if you're not, if you don't post that often on social media or something like on their Facebook and it's just like hey I'm still here,
I too am breathing and living like... [laughs]
here's just like a one minute, here's how my life's going, here's what I'm doing and I was like
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My friends got into a habit of a little less regularly, but almost weekly bi-weekly like you just shoot some message to all his friends. Hey, here's what's up this week.
kind of this cost part actually.
If you're feeling cool, send it back, you know, reciprocates or we can stay in touch while not saying in touch that much. Mm-hmm.
- Yeah, I have my best friends from Oregon.
We have a group that we do that with.
We either, and you always call it something,
like it's like the Tuesday, tiramisu,
or the Wednesday waffle.
Okay, okay.
I don't know why we do that,
but like it's like, here's your Friday Fritter,
here's my life, like here's what I'm doing.
And we try and do like one a week,
but we're all busy humans.
So it doesn't always happen.
But yeah, so I'm still,
still going to be actually still doing a puppy.
She is 11 weeks now and we just had puppy class today.
Oh, God, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, that's, I mean, it's fine, like, yeah, I can imagine that that's nice, they get tired, they, they, they go full blast with their energy, no, no, no,
She's a barker man, that's the biggest thing.
Stella was not as vocal as peppercorn is, so that's something we're having to learn.
Though if you hear her, I apologize.
Though she just had puppy class, so she's pretty zonked because she had to learn much.
I also did the no king's protest this last weekend, which was super fun.
No study.
This is a great day.
There are a couple thousand people from my local city that showed up, very fun.
We got lots of honks.
There were only two out of the thousands of humans that came to do the protest.
There are only two counter-protestors.
hahaha hahaha oh hmm yeah oh like mmm where do you even stand in that scenario like you know you
That was pretty dope.
So the one guy was just like walking opposite of the march.
And he was just like saying whatever he was saying.
And then another guy was just like on the other side of the road with a single side.
And it's like, bro, you're all by yourself with a single sign.
you know if it was it was yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I was about to say you know if it's shame his opinions so trash because that was you know I just I respect that conviction you know the dedication okay good
And I was just like, I don't I mean good good for them also exercising their rights while we still can but yeah that was it was interesting
Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. So yeah, that's what I
stuff with that we all right let's get into news cuz that still goes on despite everything whether he wants or not for cottagecore news all right let us start off with a 1.0 a game called Wind Story which I don't know if we talked about I don't know this one at all. Wind Story is a simulation game players can immerse themselves in rural lifestyles including farming breeding and fishing
during the day they can freely roam the ranch get capital R the ranch's flower fields wall at night they can enjoy drinking and dancing by the lake site bonfire I could go for drinking the dancing by the bonfire so yeah this it's I just gonna say it's Octopath it has that Octopath 2 what do they call it 2.5 HD whatever art style where it's kind of 2D but also popping out like a storybook almost.
- Yeah, yeah, I felt that, yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, I thought it was cute.
It looks cute, but 1.0 out now.
It's actually also very affordable.
I want to know is why is there some sort of garden warfare thing, it was like crop, but it was almost like cartoony pieces of grass and crops, like fighting other villagers, I don't know what's going on there, but it's funny because it's like kind of, the art style
Yeah.
there it will kind of cartoony and like scribble and I don't know what's going on there.
There's gliding, the lighting effects on, I just first see it at night.
They're very pretty.
It's like a Ferris wheel.
Yeah, there's a lot going on here, what is that green dinosaur thing falling?
I don't know what that is, but I guess there's a lot going on here.
I'm someone in treatment, like you said, it is, which is the price on this.
I don't think 12 bucks USD either
mm-hmm yeah it is unfortunately windows only for those of us like me who I knew I just don't play my desktop and but the switch one is also only $15 so it's also out on
That's pretty good. Those are demo! Oh my gosh, all this game is great. That's a demo. It's at one point. No, it's affordable. I want these done as things
Oh, ooh, it's on switching and consent. That's great. Well, there you go. Check that out. That's that's somewhat, I'm somewhat intrigued because they're going for a lot here.
Um, that is again, wind story. Um, you think there'd be like a wind message. I don't see one. Um,
All right. Now, let's go to the, the polar opposite sort of news from 1.0 release to the delay of which book delayed to 2026,
I think most games at this point, they're delaying. Yeah, that's that's what they're going to aim for. Um,
Yeah. Yeah, I'll made a note on this that he's like, we're hitting that time of the year where
some games either have to put up or shut up.
Yeah, ha, ha, ha.
And so they're we're going to either start seeing some releases or delays. He said that there are still 10 games that have not yet been delayed that we're still waiting on.
In their in their note at their post where they said that they had to delay, which is totally fine,
Y'all do you.
They also added an interactive map so you can go on their website and look at this map of the area. It's actually pretty large. I feel
Yeah, I like this concept of like you the little man
and
Yeah, yeah, so you can see little screenshots. I also just like I like the idea of it being a school
because which brook is like it's right next to I think like an academy or something like that of of witchcraft and
Yeah. Yeah.
and I feel like a lot of these games.
They don't have like a school motif or whatever.
Like I kind of like this.
Yeah
Don't have enough of that these days.
Well, yeah, I agree right like in the
You know, well trotted path of you know the general the farm in the small rural village. It is a nice spin of like
Yeah, here's a different environment with the different feel and objective so yeah, right. I appreciate that
Oh, yeah, and that's
That's they're they're they're working obviously they cannot some of the other
Stuff that they're working on character customization a girdle pen
No, no, this is, this is the next one. This is Grimshire.
pen What oh my gosh, I did. I'm looking at the wrong one. I mistake. Yes. I'm practicing with my wires. Yeah
Girdle pen, y'all. What are we talking about? That's a great question.
Yeah, that's good. Oh green sharp. This is the wild one. Okay. This is the animal people
Yeah, this is a grim cozy.
Yeah
So yeah, Grimshire, this is, so that was it for Witchbrook. She delayed. Go check out the interactive map. Grimshire has their .25 update.
Oh God, not only random number updates, but random pre 1.0 numbers. Yeah!
[laughter]
And he said note on, or they said note on version number format change. I decided during the middle part of the version numbers. So it's now just that, I guess.
You whittled it down. Oh, but that's great, but that means this earlier ones at the middle version
Yeah. So they did a bunch of stuff here. They did Kirk, like as Kev was saying,
character customization. The girdle pen and the
luggie hutch. An ounce that I haven't looked up with these are and it's funnier that way. And I was considering also not looking them up but I was like you know what I'm interested so I looked them up but there is no answer so it doesn't matter. They say this thing but then they never explain it. I think from context clues it's it's that before you just had like animal pen and no matter what kind of animal you had it went into the animal pen or the coop or whatever.
[Laughter]
But now if you have a girdle or a buggy they have their own pen like they no longer go in with the coop or the barn or whatever.
Yeah, I mean that would have been my wager, but what's a girl?
That's the next question what's a girdle and what's a buggy and that is going to remain the mystery for me.
Yeah
Well, well if you I'm look if you look at a trailer you can see some of their strange animals because you're an animal person and raising some sort of animals
uh-huh
The buggy I'm guessing is that bunny slug cross creature
Oh, that makes sense. Which is wild, because you can be a bunny.
Yeah, yeah, you can and then and then
Bunny is farming bunnies. Okay.
And there's something that kind of looks like a turtle I don't know what the G is for but there's there's these are strange creatures actually and it looks like a chicken and a sheep draft that's probably what it is a girl that said it is there you go
your wrath. I just looked at, I just thought of GIR, but I thought some of the other bug fixes and updates were funnier. So I pulled a few. Here we go. So remember, this is Grimshy. This is a grim cozy game. So something they adjusted was the food insecurity
Yep, that's probably what yeah, because it looked like a llama or something, but yeah, it's probably draft that's what is we saw that we did it good good job
death logic with resets the starvation count at the start of each town projects and you can get double-panelized for missing both food categories. So your people can star. I'm interested, you got me. Yeah, wild.
[Laughter]
Yeah, yeah, I mean rewatch that trailer. Yeah, yeah, there may be some enforced starvation on people
Another thing. So this is just a cool one. The effects of kibble eaten by mothers now affects the nursing babies. That just makes sense. Love that.
Oh, yes, well kind of terrifying, but oh, okay. I don't know
We got another mystery. Critter's state is now saved when they enter or exit a scene on their own parentheses infinite milk glitch. What? I'm thinking
Oh, that's good. I love infinite glitching.
that like something would go out of your frame of view like you'd milk your cow and then they go to the frame of view and you would just find them again and they'd have milk again. I love that. That's they didn't they fixed it though so that doesn't happen anymore. And then finally fixed the void issue at the bottom of the marsh mine maybe for real this time.
Yeah. Oh, that's pretty good. That's pretty good. I like that a lot too.
I like I like that last time we need we need more devs adding that on there
Fix this thing. Maybe maybe for real. It's like a final version underscore two underscore rough draft underscore but really. I respect it Grimshire. I'm
Maybe for real
Yeah, I did too. I like that. That's good
So there you go 0.25, which means at most
75 more updates before release unless they go back to the middle number
Yeah. Yeah. Mm hmm.
Okay, oh From stuff being added before launch. Let's talk about stuff being added after launch because we got the boy This is the game for that doesn't eat dream like Valley
out.
Where do we start you know okay all right look
I say it every time I know I say it every time I can't believe that they weren't already in the game But this time this time seems fair. How's Cinderella not in the game? All right. She's to her castle the logo of the company
Yeah. Also her fairy godmother's been there the whole time here instead of the views one of the first ones that you get. Yeah. Yeah. So they had their whole 12/2025 showcase so they not only talked about.
Yes
Yes Okay, okay, I think I'm I'm valid in this one. How was she not there oh?
Okay, but that's December 10th. She'll join that's cool. She'll explode
What they added this year, but they also talked about what's coming and just watching the showcase, I skipped through it, but I just realized how much I missed like it reminded me of how much I've missed because, no, there's, well, it's, it's disney for doing my val.
much Disney to be experienced.
But yeah, they added a lot of stuff. It seems like there's a lot of fixes to things so I'm going to try and pick this back up. We'll see what happens.
On top of Cinderella joining on December 10th in a free content update.
They're also adding something called wish blossom ranch.
Which is going to be a, I believe paid DLC content that adds horses.
Yeah, that one's actually sooner. That one's November 19th. The ranch.
So you can summon, yeah, it's pretty soon.
And that one adds like you get to go and find a bunch of horses.
And there are horses that are actually in Disney movies.
but you can also get your own.
So that's fair. Also, in Wish Blossom Ranch, they have Tigger, Corella Deville, Snow White, and Tinkerbell.
Yeah, but why who cares because Maximus just that's off. That's the end of the sentence
Oh, well, I don't, I don't like rolling that, that this, this, you know, context that that's not good. I don't like that.
Yeah, she'd be the last person I would let be at a ranch.
Help her start up her glue factory.
Kevin, no. Why? Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh.
Tigger needs some glue and she says I can help there.
She needs to glue, take her down as what she needs to do.
Thank you.
That is almost out, I guess. Like you said in November 19th, they also had their roadmap for 2026.
So these are all free content things that are coming out. Early 2026, the quote is bond over spaghetti and meatballs. It was clearly saying it's clearly Lady in the Tramp. In spring 2026, they showed the raccoon from Pocahontas, next to Pocahontas is necklace. So it'd be Pocahontas.
I could go for some.
the wind. Yep. Yep. And it's and Phil is there in the column. It's that you. So yeah, there we go. That's those are good ones. Hercules. That's a fun one.
In summer 2026, clearly Hercules, very Greek, very issues. Yes, yeah.
And then Al says more updates to game additions for some reason. I believe it's because there's like three new game additions you can get and one of them is like the base game And then there's the one that includes some of a lot of the pre
dslc paid dlc and then there's the ultimate or whatever and that includes the previous paid dlc but also this this upcoming wish blossom wish brought from ranch. So, which is like 80 bucks. Well, and that so they can kind of get me on that because if I didn't.
Yeah, this is, uh, some of this is wild. Do you want to get the wit and boss from ranch deluxe editions? He can get Zvan from frozen. I like Zvan. I'll say that. I like grained ear and that's a
I haven't bought this yet. I'm still playing on game pass, but you're you're gonna have the option to get spin and reunites then and whatever his name is and you're not gonna know it's not a little off. It's the other guy. And you're not gonna do it. You're not gonna do it. So, yeah.
off. Oh, the other guy. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, man. You know, that's a greenhouse. What are the best disney melts because your count. Oh, that's what start getting, you know, into a blood
Oh, oh. Should we do mounds or like mounds plus animal capacity?
And I'm not talking like, lady in the tramp, like they're not animal companions.
cause animal campaigns. That's a tough one. Yeah. No, no, the animal buddy, right? Okay. Here's a question. Does carpet count? Well, I guess it counts amount, but yeah, Zabu. Yeah. If you're
Yeah, the animal buddy.
I think you, yeah, well, a carpet would be the mount and then the animal buddy would be Abu.
Well, so that's that that's Disney dream. My valley. I am going to pick it back up. I tried to do that earlier, but I had more stuff.
to prepare for for this podcast. So I was like, Oh, don't have time. So I will let you all know in this lack.
Yeah
Hercule's coming which means Pegasus will be a mal. That's that's a sick one. It's a good one
Yep, yep, yep, yep, that's a good one.
Starbirds is our next one. So they have their early access road map.
It includes the flora and fauna update, which they say is going to be December or January.
Next December, next January. It includes things like moving to a new place and discovering new things. Okay, they, they say stuff, but it's very vague. So I just was like, okay.
Yeah, I mean plant life and it's yeah
I mean, it's cool that there's more stuff coming out, but when they said flora and fauna, I was like, Oh, what is it?
Not a lot of info there, but I'll wait.
Yeah. It's like, as at a glance, it's adding more things to kind of resource mine and producer whatever. But the big overarching problem, both Alan and I had was just the, what's the big motivation to do it? And I don't know if that's going to be introduced just yet. But, you know,
- Tarbert has my attention.
nothing else that are demo early access is working and working well. So I trust them. Um,
and they're not on any rush clearly because for they have like a roadmap and then it off into not even on the timeline, like it just says full release floating out in space. Um, so that's at some point it'll release maybe.
Yeah
Yeah, I mean they got to take their time. They got a lot. This is they're they're very much in the beginning of their
Of their their journey
Yup, their space voyage, uh, this did the thing.
Okay, this next one, I haven't played either game, but I'm kind of hype here.
Okay, okay. Here he is.
Cause I don't know, I don't, I don't, this, okay, I'm talking about a letter from Porsche, Guston, Ginger are coming to Starsand Island, um, right, we're getting across So we're content.
Between start sand island, that's that very like Asian-esque like inspired because you're building up like a kind of like a garden.
Anyways, sorry about the game loss.
Anyways, they're doing a crossover and they're introducing guest characters Dustin Ginger from my time at Porsche and they're in this art style.
looks good. It really...
we've got gusts, there's an architect and then we got gin... I didn't select so I don't know these characters all the way them.
I don't either.
But yeah, so these are two people and they say specifically to fill your faces arrived on Star St.
Island from the distant mainland and they are visiting the island for a special journey. So
I'll comment and wait. So is this meant to be in the same universe? Is the my time games?
I think it is. I think that these characters are coming from the my time at Porsche
Yeah, yeah.
World or wherever that is and they're coming to this island. I did see
Yeah, that's that's cool.
the comments on the steam page for this letter is
Wait, what's gonna happen? I'm married to gust like what?
[Laughter]
Just gotta vanish from my game and like no, I'm sure that they won't do that, but it's cool that they're kind of like
showing some of their characters in one of their other games
Yeah, I don't know I haven't played any of these I haven't played well star sand is an out yet there is a demo currently excuse me that does not have gust in ginger but when the game comes out and it's estimated for Q1 2026 they will be available at launch but it just hasn't launched yet so if you like to my time of Porsche if you really like these characters and you were on the fence about star sand island maybe this pushes you over the edge I don't know
Okay, yeah
Yeah
Yeah, it it what fascinates me is that I mean these are two different developers. This is a fairly substantial crossover
You know cuz you've got sea lab for stars in and was it pantheon games or my time at Porsche?
But anyways, it looks great, it starts on island books.
It's great visually, it's cool to see that.
I just, I'm somewhat, I know that like in the Fortnite world, everything's crossing over and it's tired, but I don't know, when one is done well, it still excites me, maybe I'm just a sucker, but it's cool.
I can't remember. Did I tell you last week that Scooby Doo is in Fortnite right now? Okay, good.
Yeah, yeah, you didn't tell me, is that it had those sick crocs that the first crocs I would ever wear, those scooby-doo crocs.
[laughter]
Oh, I hate croc, but I'd rock those because I'd love scooby-doo so much.
Yeah.
Yeah, I actually just watched the first live-action movie today.
Oh my gosh, that movie is wild to me, like just, we literally got a new shaggy, he stayed on to voice him for, oh it's crazy, for decades, oh my gosh.
Not for the first time.
I love Matthew Lillard, he's such an amazing actor.
He's incredible, what range, we got shaggy and we got the guy in the screen, yeah.
- Yeah, one of a killer in scream.
He also is a paranormal, investigative, psychic,
and a movie called 13 Ghosts,
which is one of my favorite horror movies.
Ooh, I didn't know that, but we have this, there's the series called 13 Ghosts of Scooby-Doo, we can connect it all!
Oh my gosh, I didn't know that.
He's also like the bad guy thinking five lines of Freddy's life action.
Man has got this like goofy cartoony horror down, um, good for you.
Which, which fought crossover with a farming game on Matthew earlier would be in stay tuned, I don't know.
If I could marry him in Stardew,
I mean, yes, I would too!
I would pick Stardew back up immediately.
I'm sorry Leah.
Maybe he'll be in haunted truck with here.
It's another spooky crossover.
Awwww!
No, he won't.
That would be amazing, huh?
Good sir Dave, how much do you love Scooby-Doo?
Ah.
Okay, um...
Okay, last thing before we get into our main topic,
we have one new game,
and it is called Mazy Village.
So, Maisie, as in like,
that you go through that has, like, you has dead ends and you, whatever, a corn maze, whatever.
Not. Yeah. Yeah. Not Maisie Mouse. That's different. Do you know that one? Oh, I think it was originally British cartoon. It's just a very charming, like kids cartoon. I'm going to put on, I'm going to show the art because it's very charming. But anyways, yes.
Oh, I didn't know. No.
No.
Okay, we'll put it, put it in the slack, put it in the slack.
Maisie Village is a cozy town restoring adventure where a tornado scatters homes, villagers.
And they're precious belongings, including, I'm just going to be saying it, including a cat, if you go find a cat.
Find what was lost in the world as you solve Maisie's rebuild homes and fill the village with warmth and life again.
So, I, the, I love the art of this game, but I also, I just think this is such a really interesting idea where you start with like a huge area.
Yeah
and then in this little opening scene or whatever you see.
a tornado just jumble everything around, and then you only have,
tornado has a face
tornado has a face.
suggesting that was intentional and aimed
I need to know the tornado is backstory.
It's a very cute face too. That's the worst part. I want to be that tornado's friend
Yeah, so you end up coming to this town or you're part of this town or whatever,
and you end up bringing everything back together, but it limits what you can do at first,
And then you help people rebuild their...
homes or, like, find their lost cat or find their, like, something that's precious to them.
And as you add tiles back to the, like, main central tile of the town, it, like, shifts all of the other tiles.
So that's the maze part, because sometimes it might make it, so, like, you can't go forward anymore, because there's a cliff now.
Yeah, it's, uh, it is, uh, okay, it reminds you of, you know, the slide puzzles, like little tile puzzles, like, I hate those to begin with, I'll be honest, but, uh, in this context, I like it a lot, because changing your layout with that and then, you know, changing paths, they lead, I like that a lot, actually, this, this, this, this one.
And I think that's really interesting.
Yes.
Okay.
Mm hmm.
The art style is very cute.
It's very plate.
I don't have a better comparison point,
but play school with the K, you know, the play school brand.
Yeah, yeah.
That's what it feels like, but it's well done.
It's not like infantile.
It's just very cute and charming.
Those cows and goats are very cute.
Yeah, yep, yep demo is currently out. There is no release date, but some to keep your eye on for sure
Demos out now.
Oh, I'm in on this game.
I am in.
- Absolutely.
I'm...
Yeah, I'm on board for this one.
Yeah.
All right.
I posted the art of Maisie Mouse.
Cool
Okay, we've made it 36 minutes
Oh, good.
Oh, good heavens.
Now, 36 hours, buckle up, buckaroos.
Oh
All right, here's the question.
Do you wanna go backwards or forwards?
Yeah, we know we go we go 98 let's hit 96 we go scroll to the bottom
Oh, god. Oh, yeah.
I want to do it that way
All right. Okay. Yes.
That also makes more sense because some of these things are remakes or sequels or whatever so
Okay, 96 harvest moon. You get the extra special crown because you're the winner by default.
There's no other for in game. Also, there was no farming game ever really.
[laughs]
So and everyone's kind of just leaching off you.
Yeah.
So you get an extra shiny crown. Good for you, harvest moon.
Yep. So, I like, so they said on the like Wikipedia or whatever it said that it's considered by some to be the first cozy game and it linked to this inverse article. And I just really liked this quote. So what would make Harvest Moon work? He thought he being the like guy that made
It's the SNES edition, the one we Al and I played forever ago.
was pacing. Crucial to any work of entertainment was a good mixture of pace. If something demands your attention constantly, it's easy to get overwhelmed or tired, but if it's too glacial, it's easy to get distracted. Having a mix of the two is what makes something enjoyable to be at a movie or a game.
And I think that that is a really good, honestly, that is like what is good about some farming games and others being like too much.
Yeah, I agree. It's a genius insight and to kind of knock it out of it because that that aspect specifically the pacing um, I think Harvest Moon does it quite well on the original Harvest Moon um and and honestly like
- Yeah.
As someone who tried it um
So much of the DNA the bones of the entire genre are there. It's wild. They have the hot springs for Pete's sake
Yeah.
um, you know It's a shame it has a two I don't inventory slot but but other than that it had a lot going for it. So I I definitely tip my hat towards harvest moon
Consider it did it first and did it all that
Yeah, well a well-deserved game of the year for 1996 good for you harvest moon
- Yeah, 1997, Harvest Moon Game Boy.
And someone said with that,
it's just without the dating aspects of the initial game and with only a few mini quests to play through,
Harvest Moon Game Boy color is a lightweight version of a feathery game.
Okay, that I mean a crown by default because whatever, but that's rough though
I doesn't have to be. We don't have to give a crown.
So what do who do who gets the crap?
No one, no crown awarded. Uh, that's that's we could do that or I mean, I guess it's up to you.
I Guess well here because here's the thing like that's rough like it's the game boy you had Pokemon on it, right?
Like it could handle a sizable-ish Gabe, at least for the time.
I... I... I had some...
I think I'm the snest addition, I think you could translate that. Um, so that's kind of rough. Um, that, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I think it should still win because it brought harvest moon to handheld
It did. I thought I was, but that was my next point actually, like, but the handheld thing, that's always a big leap. Um, especially back in '97. Um, so, all right, sure, good enough.
Um, all right, you get a crown harvest from a GB for '97.
So many good games came out this year. On that year, we had got Ocarina of time and all sorts of other things. Yeah, 98 wasn't saying year for gaming. I'd have to go back and see
Oh, I didn't know.
Oh, well, then that's, I mean, no other, no one was playing any other game, right?
Yeah, so So since we had no other actual harvest moon to college core game. We are occurring at time. You have the correct I don't
But um, was there was there was there any farming in hockey and I'm trying to think I don't
think there was no there's fishing yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah there you go there you go this is our ocarina specifically the fishing yeah okay 99 all right now we're starting to get some you know contenders um consideration um okay because we got a triple threat of harvest moon um we have
No, there's phishing. Yeah, there's the phishing which I spent a good amount of time
phishing it there, so
Yeah
Yeah, so no no winner in 98
harvest moon 64 harvest moon to game boy color and harvest moon back to nature
wait the PSP didn't exist in 99 did it
Yeah, I think I might be PSP might have been like it might have been re released or something for PSP later, but that was something that
a root yeah yeah yeah
That it mentioned so
- Yeah.
- Um, okay.
Yeah, so here's where I started when I started making notes I was like how are we gonna like if I've I've never played any any of these so how how are how am I gonna judge them?
right. So I started adding things like Metacritic score. So Metacritic is something that takes all of the different critical scores for game and kind of like combine them into a score. It's not just an average. I think it like waits things differently. So both Harvest Moon 64 and Harvest Moon 2 on the Game Boy color had 78% and back to nature had 82. So there's that. Also these games differed in different ways. So Harvest Moon 64 updated the previous one by having a
limited amount of time to work in any given day and a limited amount of stamina to work. Harvest Moon 2 Game Boy color is you're able to build a sheep pen and by sheep. You can build a greenhouse. You can walk around the town, which walking around the town apparently you couldn't do that in the first one. Oh, well, they said that it's that's oh not in the Harvest Moon Game Boy color. Yeah.
good one. You could, you absolutely good. Oh, game original game boy. I'm sorry, game I just think it was, oh, maybe not. I don't know. I didn't think about that. No. Oh, I can't.
The whole is that you have 3 years to get your farm going. Return to nature. They didn't really explain. There wasn't really like anything that explained what back to nature return to nature meant. And so I think it's because you you like when you were at the farm visiting your grandparents when you were a kid and then you went away and then later you come back. So I think you're returning to like a way out of the city to come to like whatever the country.
Yeah
Yeah, so these are the 3 options. We got Nintendo 64 Game Boy color and PlayStation 3 different games. What do you think?
um this is a tough call um g how should I put this the gbc version looks exactly like in my mind what I picture just looking at screenshots and whatever um which is kind of appealing to me
Oh
um I guess if they're in nostalgia like game boy color feel um but I i don't know how it plays right like there's horses there's sheep pens there's there's an animal pen it looks like it It has, you know, unlike the first version, it has the-
Me and potatoes of a farming game. So I am tempted because of the portability.
But shockingly, as someone who didn't play PlayStation or in '64, I kind of like back to nature, the visuals.
Both '64 and back to nature have like an isometric, they're 3D-ish, but back to nature feels a little more 3D.
Like, I see some cows that look almost a little flat on the-
64 version, but they look a little more 3D on the playstation, so yeah, I don't know something about the visuals on the playstation. Maybe just because everything feels a little rounder, that looks a little more charming, but I don't know, but I say that, but GBC look tempting because that looks like a solid classic retro portable farming game. What are your thoughts, Cody?
Well, I'm going 64, I'm just going 64.
No, oh, oh the one I was
Yeah, so I feel like Nintendo is where Harvest Moon belongs.
And also just like back to nature, I don't know,
it just seemed like that, that idea of coming back or whatever, I think that was what the previous ones did.
So it just didn't seem like it was doing anything different.
Yeah Yeah, but also, you know, something about the Metacritic store, right? You got to think about the I think the context of the time, right?
It does have the highest metacritic score,
and only I think I'd go for 64.
This was back in a day when graphics were like, oh, everyone was all about the graphics and and whatnot. So I can see that slanting it
The horse looks very charming in 64. I'll say that. Oh
I'm not too terribly
I don't know how well to play so it's hard to argue for I'm willing to give it to 64
Okay, cool. Or it could be a tie tie between 64 and back to nature. We could do that too.
Yeah, that's fine. 64 you get the grant
I didn't have PlayStation, so you know, I'm gonna get 64 because I could have played that one
Yeah.
Okay, all right now we're get to the good
thousand the progressive news
millennium we get as you was at your quote or is that al okay? Oh? Yeah
Yep, it's the year of boy or girl.
New millennium, women exist, which is awesome.
But I still don't love it. So, I mean, one of them is two harvest moon games. One of them is Harvest Moon 3 Game Boy Color, but there's also Harvest Moon 4 Girl, which is literally just back to nature, but you can play as a girl.
But Harvest Moon 3 GBC.
If you get a different story based on who you choose, so here it says the boys is a successful rancher living on the farm from Harvest Moon 2 GBC who was asked by the mayor to help a girl on a nearby island run the farm of her father.
Yeah, which is wild, but okay.
Or the girl's beginning is she shows up and she's trying to save Harry's farm by taking control of it.
ha ha ha ha oh you know what I kind of like it I kind of dig it okay first of all the boy like making it like cannon sequel and he's established and helping out someone else I think that's pretty cool actually um uh the the girl character that's wild that's story but I also kind of digging because it's so wild I kind of dig it yeah
I'm like what?
Yeah, I yeah
It's like, here we are, it's the year 2000 women are here and we are taking what's ours.
yeah um also let's you know note they're both selectable right one unlike the for girl um
Mm-hmm Yeah, four girl. You're just the girl. Sorry
on the back the nature so yeah so I mean I think there's this a clear winner for for three GBC
Now. Yep.
that that's a wild thoughts and the ideas I like that a lot why am I oh my gosh Stardew 2.
What if you run with it?
Oh, I love seeing continuity, right?
Like between games, like their time passage, that's cool stuff.
Okay.
So congratulations, since you get a current Harvest Moon through GBC.
Okay, 2001.
Okay.
Harvest Moon saved the homeland for the PS2.
Wow, PS2 is already out then.
or and okay this is
genre talk baby are we doing farming game or cottagecore because animal crossing original
or at least in the states there are the non-Japan areas dropped in 2001 for the game and cube
- Mm-hmm.
we didn't keep wasn't listed on the other ones they didn't 64 version but whatever I won't you know lost in the weeds um so animal crossing did you play original animal crossing Cody
Yep, I think it's I think it's animal crossing. I don't even we don't really need to say anything else. The one thing that I love about this animal crossing that is not in any other animal crossing is the police station.
Okay.
Um, so I mean, it's animal crossing.
When you're enough said, I think.
[laughing]
It, yup.
You, yup.
It's the police station, it's so good.
Copper and Booker were excellent.
Copper and Booker and like their names are just so good.
And the fact that got, it's incredible.
And then it kills me that they were delegated to other stuff later on.
Yeah, I
Like, what, what was the last time
of "I don't even remember"?
I don't know But there's like in the in the police station. There's a lost and found so you just like go
They were in, uh...
Uh...
It's just like are any of these items yours and you can go through and just take like everything and they're just kind of like I
Remember it being them being like oh, okay, I guess you've lost a lot or something like that
Well I recall they were two because the copper and book are like one was day one was night and they had distinct personalities, right?
Right
Booker was like that. He was the chai kind of timid guy copper. I fire a call correctly. He was like, all right I'm so you better be telling the truth with a glare the stink guy
Yeah
Yeah, I think they like walk they like follow you while you're doing it to if I remember correct remember correctly
Yeah, yeah, they do. Yeah
This is also resetty really hit hard
Yeah, proper he said he ah
There's fake outs that we do remember that
Yeah, so it was if you
If you yeah, or he just would like pop up and you're like but I saved but yeah resetty would show up if you forgot to save and you quit and you quit or whatever and he would just for like five minutes he was just like you need to save and he would just like you're like okay fine it's just so
These days ah good times good times
Yeah, yep.
Yeah, I'm a car thing. This is great a lot of limitations. Boy those closets with only three items
Hmm, yeah to dedicate a whole basement to inventory
Yeah.
But
It was at that one as well that had all of the SNES games that you could play.
It did yes, yep
Yeah.
It was good.
That was fun. It's crazy have the emulator and I'm crossing but
Yeah, you basically had an emulator Animal Crossing.
I don't know if later ones did that.
Ah Some of them did yeah
Ah, okay, so that's and I mean yeah, it's animal crossing everything all the staples are there your fishing your bugs or neighbors
Oh, you had the hat with the horns or if you're the girl the cone wizard hat for God. Yeah, you have limited looks. No hair. Oh, that's good. Good times
Mm-hmm
Oh, you're the tree the big tree the with the wishing well, yeah, okay
Yeah
All right, memory lane, okay off that off that harvest moon save the homeland ps2
Nope
Boy talk about a visual like
Upgrade like we're seeing some defined features on these character models look in a little more anime e
The box arts kind of funny because the it's gone from cutesy like I mean so cutesy But the he he's more like fully proportioned now. They they the protecting this he feels
Like late 90s early 2000 anime. That's what I'm looking at here
Hey, that's not a bad thing.
And that's what the game Yeah, that's what the game kind of feels like all of those cows are so cute
Okay, so now the question
Do we Cuz harvest moon like I'm sure it's still
It's just harvest mooning, you know, I'm not I'm not feeling it's any great innovations here
But amocross me
It's cottage core of course, but is it okay? I'm pretty amocrossing. Yeah. Alright look alright because I'm just saying because the episode or oh game of the years I thought was farming game of the years. Okay. Whatever never mind. All right fine. And of course
Oh, there's no there's no contest. This is a normal crossing. There's no contest. Yeah
I think we're going based on where we're going with the games Al gave us and if those are the games Al gave us a animal crossing the end
Yeah, yeah, yeah, fine fine fine. All right animal crossing you win this year. That's fine. Okay, 2002
So that was 2001, going to 2002, uh, nothing.
You got nothing. So no, no, no, I can't think of a 2002 release off the top of my head, so nothing gets it.
Um, 2003. Uh, okay. Ooh, ooh, we got some kit. Well, um, all right, this is it.
This is when farming games really hit the States, because this is where a lot of people pick it up, right?
Mm-hmm.
We have, gosh, these were all this year and one year. Friends of Mineral Town, original for the GPA, wonderful life, original for the GameCube.
And more friends of Mineral Town, the girl version for girls, um, because they were still doing that. Okay, even though GBC had already gotten rid of that, but we went back to it. Okay, good to know.
Yeah I played a wonderful life so I mean I think that that one's gonna win anyways I really liked a wonderful life and they say here that it begins you move to the city you move from the city to inherit an abandoned farm and forget me not Valley and a man named Takakura provides them a house and seeds in Calvary. Thank you, Dr. Cura.
Um, okay. Have you played any of these Cody? Okay, I played it too, so I win.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, and what girl did you go for in this one?
Um, uh, Zylia, oh, yeah, 'cause, yeah, I mean, it was first ever video game wife.
Yeah, same.
The one that was nice.
So, you know, yeah, there you go.
Oh, there you go. Never forget your first.
So the Friends of Mineral Town and the More Friends of Mineral Town.
They have different stories based on between you choose.
So the Friends of Mineral Town.
Um, this would basically, it's not your grand.
The grand father, it's just that like you went to mineral town as a kid and you met this old guy and you like helped him out while you're in mineral town or whatever.
And then when you moved away into the city, you wrote letters to this guy and then one day the letter stop.
And then you go back to see if he's okay and you find out that he died and his farm is run down and you decide to like pick it back up, which is.
- That's a jump.
That's that hurts my heart, but whatever the girl version more friends of mineral
town, you, the player starts in the city and they're reading their newspaper. She seeds in season advertisement for a beautiful farm and excited by the prospect of rural life decides to buy it. Because girls clearly would not have fun as a kid.
Why change the beginning?
Why?
With their grandpa or whatever and you went there, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
Hoping, not their greats, not their grandpa, just a random guy. Yeah, I don't know, but if they changed it. So I love the idea of she sees an ad for abuse.
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, oh, let's get it.
And she gets there and it's just like a honka junk. And she's like, what?
Yeah, I mean, I did a whole episode of Micah about it while I love that game.
Yeah, no, uh, wonderful life gets it.
The remake carries a lot of the spirits, so go listen to that episode of you on my thoughts.
You, you're dying that game and that game ends you win, that's, that's rough.
Yep.
Um, okay, so the clear winner, uh, 2004, uh, by default for a second year running, yeah,
of wonderful life.
The girl of origin is not known as at the remake.
No, I think the remake is the one that added the girl version. This didn't have a girl version. It just makes means it just is that you can now have a daughter instead of only having a son
You can marry Lumina and you can now continue playing after you die
although, ha ha ha ha ha.
Towing the line to say the least.
I don't know. I personally know when her this year. This is kind of yikes to me.
Like, mmm, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
Just get, it's two sketch.
Okay, okay.
Here's, okay, for listeners who don't know it in listen,
I'm just gonna break it down.
Lumenau was a character in the original.
She was, I guess, grandpa.
She was very clearly a child model, very young.
Very young.
I think they have this version where you can end up marrying her.
I'm guessing the implication was that she was, you know, early teens,
but the model doesn't reflect that.
They didn't change it.
So it's just very sketch looking.
And that's a very, very generous interpretation, right?
So, you know, that's fair.
Yeah, it's, that's a rough one.
But, okay, no winner.
No winner. No winner. That's my vote
Okay.
Sure, that's fine.
Yeah, it's, that's rough.
Okay.
Let's go to 2005.
Harvest Moon DS.
Okay, I'm trying to remember now.
Is this one the hands changed I think?
I think it might be.
in the what chain? Oh, no, no, no, no, I have that later. That was actually 2014.
No.
Okay.
Are you serious?
Holy moly.
Explain what you're talking about though.
Wow.
My time.
Well, just we all know because the original owners of the harvest moon branded from Japan.
Was it not to me?
That was the Japanese company.
- Yeah, so it's not too many ink.
Yeah.
Yeah, they basically, when they got it to the porta, they gave away the rights to the name eventually basically, which is the most baffling decision ever.
Yeah, so it was the word story of season games and then at one point they are no longer story of season games
Yeah, all the, all the harvest moons you've been discussing are quote, unquote, story of seasons at this point, um, and then later they, uh, yeah, yeah, yeah, not too many was the, um, I can't, anyways, I have to look up the names because I'm getting all mixed up, but anyways, this is still original brand. Okay, marvelous. That's what it is. Yeah.
Yeah, they split so that harvest moon is distinct from story of season
Yeah, so the new one is marvelous. The new one is marvelous and X seed I think is the thing, but yeah
Yeah, that's the thing because they changed names too, right? Because that's it. Maybe Kimix
said, yeah. Um, anyways, but that's later. We're not there yet. You know, I thought we were, but okay, Harvest Moon DS. Um, and they forget me, not Valley. Um,
Yeah, but instead of like it being your grandfather or one of your friends farms or whatever It's just that you are a young man named Pete who lives with his friend Takakura on a farm and forget me not Valley
Well, well first of all, hey, you got you have a name. That's a first, but yeah, it looks pretty much just like a DS flattened version of wonderful life because that's forget me. Not valid. It's the same village and looking at the map. It looks to be pretty much the same identical map. So
They were room they were roommates
There you go points off for not using
the naming conventions of the time which was to come up with a sub title of DNS in it
[laughing]
So just but but you know
It was a do okay, but that's harvesque. Yes, just the S version of wonderful. I I never played it So I can't commit to the comment on the quality, but we also get
Yeah. Yep. Are you ready for this?
Because at least
It's baffling to me like is this is this like a red and blue idea
of we make the girl version separate will double the sale I don't know what it is but we have our best moon DS cute the girl version you go ahead Cody take it away
Yep.
Okay.
But oh boy, so before up until this point,
I had been writing the notes and kind of like giving it a blurb.
But I saw this, I was like, I'm just gonna read this.
Okay.
In this game, the player's mother sends a wish to the harvest goddess that they may become a successful farmer.
The harvest goddess eventually determines the player has no
work ethic and tells the harvest king what she thinks. The harvest king angrily tells the harvest goddess she isn't trying hard enough and she's slacking off in her old age.
The harvest goddess then calls the harvest king a big baldie and is turned into stone.
The harvest sprites defend the harvest goddess which angers the goddess the harvest king even more and he sends the harvest sprites and the goddess to another world as punishment But he realizes his mistakes.
He is gone too far.
He then writes a letter to the player and sends the witch princess to deliver it, telling them that if they work hard as a farmer, it will bring back the harvest sprites and the harvest goddess.
Oh, so, you know, for girls, I'd get that misogyny in there.
What a frickin' what a like drama.
Like why does it have to be drama?
Like the boy version is just, I'm with my friend on a
farm and the girl version, they have to make this dramatic woman's spurned turn to stone sent elsewhere.
Husband feels bad, goes to the send it back.
I don't know if the harvest goddess and the harvest king are spouses, but like it's just what?
What?
It's not.
That's a lot.
that's wild. Okay, and then on a considerably less wild note, we have Harvest Moon magical melody for the game. The Wii was out in 2005 already? That's 2006. Okay, or did it come out on Wii? Maybe it came in on Wii, regardless. Yeah,
There's that.
It might as like the next year or something.
that's what I'm thinking. To wake the harvest goddess and marry one of the townspeople, the player must gather musical notes by finishing various chores in milestones.
I don't get it, but okay. You can't marry until you get the notes. As one does.
because music, I think this was like around the time that like rock band and guitar hero were like becoming a thing. And so they were like, oh, we got to make music. It's got to be music themed.
Yeah
They're just writing
Writing the the just hopping on that train. Okay. Okay. Um
Okay, so I I didn't play this one. I can't speak to it, but
Apparently there's a pet pig. It's that's mm. That's it's a strong. That's a strong point in this favor. I'll say that
Yep.
Okay, so how 11 battles matter its each?
That's a lot, wow.
too many options. There's two more. There's also Harvus Moon, an update and a port of Back to Nature, Harvus Moon, Boy, and Girl. That was out on the PSP this year. And Animal Crossing Wild World is on the DS. And this is all I can say about this one is Sphere. This one instead of like...
Is that, yeah.
All right, we'll be giving it to.
I haven't planted these.
Oh, wait, oh gosh, you're right.
I didn't see the list.
Oh, oh goodness.
Boy and girl, they come together at last.
having a block and then you go to the edge of the screen to like go to the next block or whatever.
Tiles. That was an acre system. They were tiles. Yeah
The tiles, yeah.
Yeah.
Instead of that, it's just a sphere.
You're running...
Smooth world
I didn't like that.
So I did not like it.
Didn't like it. Yeah, I mean
So despite the fact that I want to give it to a wild world, I don't...
In good conscience, I can't.
I mean, well, I mean, while well, for most of those series,
dental crossings are just straight upgrades, right?
So, but so, you know, again, same animal crossing.
It did add a lot.
You actually had inventory in that game.
You could make patterns on clothing and tiles on the floor.
Oh yeah, I remember that.
introduce the trauma-inducing tarantula.
It's just squirpy and that would knock you out, so on and so forth.
I mean, it's good to fall at work, I say I'm crossing just more ammo crossing better.
That's the game.
Oh, so who do we give it to?
Because while worlds the only one I played, so, you know, impartially that's what I'd give it to, I guess, but I'd rather give it to wild world than anyone else, yeah.
I mean if you if you want to give it to them, that's fine. I would also be fine to just say no
No winner There you go, then we're gonna give it to
I wish I'd like to go back to these harvest moons and revise it just because I didn't even, magical melody has peaked my interest, just because I don't know, okay, game cubits that feel, of a wonderful life, yeah, but okay, all right, we'll give it to wild world because sure why not, um, 2006, oh, yeah, we only got one entry here and that is room factory for the DS and.
And technically at that time, it was in fact the harvest moon, like, or.
Room factory, a fantasy harvest moon, the, the, the, the, the path split here, the new timeline was introduced with the.
Oh, no, this is a completely different game series.
No, yeah, I know I just mean like world, like the world wise, like here we go down a different path.
Yeah, yeah.
Yep, people get to choose a new, a new branch.
You can go story seasons or room factory.
Yeah.
Uh, yeah, it's, it's
it's hard with his moon, but there's some combat and monsters and stuff. Um, yeah. Um, I actually need to play it. I've never played new original. I haven't played any hard run factory.
It's fun to see.
I also haven't played any room factory.
We totally should and do it as like a second harvest.
Like people who hadn't played room factory.
first service yeah yeah because I don't yeah I've wanted to I just I don't never get to it but um oh okay I want to give it to it because room factory has stayed it is a franchise now um and and I think at the time the idea but hey what do we have harvest movement with some combat and some more you know stuff like you know that was uh that was a decent idea um okay let's go out to
Yeah, exactly.
- Yeah.
- You can do that.
- We have Harvest Moon at home.
what is oh my gosh what is this title 2007 harvest moon ds colon island of happiness dash ds the second dish no oh I thought that was a title I don't know I was reading that I just my brain no you did that for all of them my brain just I just it took as a title okay island of happiness I apologize um yeah okay All right, let's see here. Take it away, Cody.
- Oh, sorry, the dash DS is me saying that it was on the DS.
No, dude, sorry.
still an interesting title.
Oh yeah, so this is where we started at the point where I'm like, what are even these games?
Well, I like, looked up what they are.
This one has a Metacritic score of 65,
and it says in the beginning,
the player, if you choose male, it's Mark,
female, is Chelsea.
The character that you don't choose will later appear.
Whoever you are, you're shipwrecked with a family of four and you end up
on a deserted island, there seems to be signs of past life on the island, but no one knows what happened.
So I guess you've figured that out throughout the game, I don't know.
There was, at the time, a review by someone in Australia, Tracy Lean of Hyper.
She commended the game for bringing, quote, "back the addictive elements from previous games."
However, she criticized the, quote, "clumsy control system" that makes even the most basic of tasks feel like a chore.
Oof, that's rough.
So it's because it required you to use the touch screen to move and to interact with things.
So you'd have to use, like, have your stylus on the, this is not capacitive touch.
This is, like, actually, like, you have to be putting force down on your touch screen to move around and then you'd click on, like, things to interact with them.
- Yeah.
Especially if you've had your DS for a while that some of that got a little hard to do.
Sure. Sure. Sure.
You're a while.
That touch screen was either like top, not much fantastic stuff or it was rough.
- Yeah.
There's very few in between. Um, okay.
Most of the time, if I had to take my stylus out,
I was frustrated.
I'm like, let me just play in here without doing that.
Hmm. Well, if you don't want to touch, what about waggling?
I don't know if waggling was in this game, but it is on the way.
[laughing]
so there's a strong chance. Harvest smooth tree of
There you go.
tranquility. The player cabin that's me or Angela moves to Waffle Island,
that's a good name, which was once enchanted, home to the deceased mother tree that was one sacred. After the harvest God's vanished, the island lost its connection with nature and its inhabitants do not know what to do. Metacritic score of 60 versus the 65 of Island of Happiness.
Yeah. I mean, I think, yeah, doing the whag line with the Wii, like having a Wii mo and having to move around, like, personally, that'd probably be my preferred.
Uh, you know, okay, you know what this is the weird thing, but over time, even back when it came out like
It wasn't even the waggle. It was the batteries of the we moat having constantly having to change them or or recharge them or whatever
- Yeah.
That that got to me. That was the part that got me about the we but
Well, that's why you'd get the like crazy battery pack things that you'd put on it,
Yeah
or you'd buy the rechargeable versions or whatever.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, which I did do but
It was I don't know it just felt weird because you know I mean controls didn't have to deal with batteries before that really or or at least the ones I had dealt with
Yeah, cuz they were all wired I
Yeah, yeah, all right, so which one are we giving it to whoa?
Would give it to the tree of tranquility
The the DS version the DS game it I mean it's it's whatever, but I think the
Yeah, I mean
Having to do with the stuff on the touchscreen that I would have hated that so if I have to go with either of these I have I'm gonna go with tree of tranquility
Hmm.
I mean, I'm only in one of these games.
So yeah, we'll also give it to Trifchankood.
Yeah, we'll give it we'll actually give it to tree of tranquility because Kevin was in that game
[laughing]
And then you didn't tell me you were in a game.
And two.
Is there a Kevin character in overcoat?
I mean, I'm also an overcooked, fun fact.
The dog, he's just like the onion king and his dog isn't in Kevin.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah.
That's so great.
[laughing]
Okay.
So that's 2007.
Congratulations, Trifchankood quality.
And you know what, I don't know what it is,
but the setup of reviving is a sacred tree.
I don't know why it feels, I like the, yeah.
It feels good. Yeah, it feels good.
Yeah.
Okay.
Oh boy.
Yep, yep, yep.
Big year, 2008.
We're getting into it folks.
Harvest Mundia's grand bazaar.
What's, whoa, was that Al's ghostly hand giving it the crown.
Do you want to just say all of them and then we can go back through?
I'll put these, I guess, harvest moon DS, grand bazaar, harvest moon DS, sunshine islands.
We got two harvest moons on the DS, that's wild, as harvest moon DS, sunshine islands.
Harvest moon animal parade, animal crossing city folk, room factory two, room factory frontier and formula for the first. Excuse me.
I'm gonna go and reverse order what I just said. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Harvest. Oh my gosh.
Yep, I was gonna say we should we should do it reverse order because then it's like the one game of one thing
Like it just kind of makes sense
It's just on the stuck on my tongue now because it said it's on each side. Farming simulator 2008, the first, the only, actually, no, there's only wheat. That's what you're saying. I get it.
Yeah, it's the first farming simulator, first realistic farming sim.
Only wheat as an option, which is kind of wild, but they were going for realism, so I guess they were dealing with a lot, sure.
Yep, you can only get wheat.
Root, PC Gaming in 2008, oh man, Rune Factory Frontier on the Wii.
- Yeah.
So this is, sorry, my note is that it's shortly after the first game.
>> No.
So this frontier, room factory frontier like takes picks up the story right after the first room factory and then room factory too is like several years after the first game.
So these games, it's like frontier is chronologically in the middle.
Yeah, 'cause Run Factory 2 on the DS is several years after the first game set in the coast of the city of Alvarna, there's two parts of the story, first half of the game follows Kyle, I'm a serious man with a connection to the legendary dragon, fearsome FIE or some,
Yep, yep.
second half of the game features Kyle's child searching for their father after he disappears,
ooh, I like that, I like that a lot actually.
I like that but also the fact that it's like a fantasy game and the main character's name is Kyle
Yeah, yeah, that's good. Okay, city folk, I played this one. Did you play city folk?
It's just kind of kind of stupid
Yep, I
Also played city folk
Probably, well, is it my least favorite? It's one of my least favorite in the entry.
Oh
I think it was just the wee battery thing again. I think that's it. I think that's it.
Oh, yeah
It had the city, which was a cool idea of the separate place with all these shops that you could do,
um, wait, Zippert, he was added in this game, and he realized that probably
Yeah, yeah, so I added I looked at this up like they added so many cool things in this game
yeah, yeah.
The bug off Chameleon is in this was added in this name
Nat, that was just added in that one of those in there before, that's crazy.
Yeah, they add ticks who polices your shoes. Yeah
Oh, man.
Oh, I love kicks, kicks is so good. I forgot to kick your right, because he was just literally,
and street boys shoes shine, but literally on the steps, waiting to shine your shoes and color them.
Yeah, I just shoot
He just polished your shoes.
Gracie has her own store, Gracie Grace, where they introduce the credit card, because there's stuff like a bajillion bells to buy. Um, oh, my gosh. Oh, that was good stuff.
Um, cap and being a bus driver now. That's fun little change. Yeah, I got it to smash.
Um, yeah, city folk, adding stuff. I'm more crossing it. So I'm crossing it's still good overall.
Okay. Oh, a harvest moon animal parade. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So I am afraid seek all, um, to tree of tranquility.
Okay, so there's all these harvest mitts.
So I think, yeah, I think the animal prays on the we.
Yes, that is correct. That is correct. Um, last entry in the series made by your shoe, uh,
Yasugito, Wada, the original creator. Um, that's kind of special. Um, and honest, okay, it's Give me a duty.
Oh, pardon me for this, but this one has a slightly sentimental place in my heart because my little brother Calvin. This was his first like farming game you play.
Aww.
Um, and in the end of parade, living up to the name, it was like you could take care of all sorts of animals.
Um, and I had this very, very distinct memory, like it's, it's, it's sweet, but also like all, like I feel bad for him because he was so little and his, he had a cow die, like for the first time.
Mmm.
And he just cried like one of those, he used real real little.
He just, you know, one of those real deep heart felt cries like not, not tantrum crying like he was sad.
Um, so I just remember that from Adam parade that was that gets me right in the fields every time.
So, no spoiler, does that remove it from the running, or does it make it stay in the running for...
Oh, no, that, oh, that puts it for front of the running for me.
Okay, okay, okay.
Okay, Harvest Moon via Sunshine Island.
You couldn't have done Destiny Sunshine or something. It was right there. You had one letter. All you need to do is a D.
But anyways,
Sequel to Island of Happiness on the DS.
Sequel, but there's...
Okay, sorry. Oh, I thought I was reading.
Okay, many years before the events of the game,
a powerful earthquake struck the Sunshine Islands,
causing them to sink to the ocean.
How are you getting them back up?
to get out. But that's what I want to know. But...
Yeah, so I think that these islands are like separated or something. This might also
I'd be explaining something that happened in the island of happiness in the first game. I don't know, but
They they listened they heard that people hated the fact that all you had to do everything on the touch pad So they now used it they now added that you can use buttons for some of the actions So you have to move on the with you with the touch pad or whatever
But then you could push buttons to interact.
Which I don't know if that fixes it.
Yeah, yeah, no, that's fair. Um, yeah, I don't know. I didn't play it. So
Um, all right. Let's just go to the next one. Uh, harvest food. I don't know what else to say. I Sunshine. I just didn't think I'm Mario Sunshine. That was a good game. It's probably not as good as sunshine
[laughing]
Yeah, now you're right.
Harvest moon
Um, DS grand bazaar. Um, I like that game. He likes it a lot. The is owl reaching past us
Well, so he likes he likes the story of seasons grand bazaar, which is the remake of this game
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I wonder how it compares to the remake. Um,
Well, maybe because owl loves grand bazaar some stories seasons grand bazaar so much. Maybe he should he should jump back instead of second harvest. We should do like retro harvest
Maybe yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'd be down for that, but yeah, I haven't played it but clearly I like a lot and
So you and I could do a retro harvest of rain factory
At least I should put this a wonderful life like it was almost one to one remake
yeah I also think that like they if I remember correctly they added like a lot of quality of life things to this game like to the newer version
I think I'll said this one had a little more TLC, but it makes sense. This was a DS game, right?
like that was still 2D going to.
3D and like that. That was a bigger jump.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, sorry, one second. Um, uh, so, okay, who, who gets the crown?
Uh, my vote would either be for Animal Crossing City folk or for Animal Parade.
>> So I mean, city fog was good, but like I said,
it's one of my least favorite animal crossings,
It's, yeah.
I think largely because the way the battery,
but I don't pray, I mean, I already said my thing,
but also a little more objectively.
The fact that it was the last one by Wada,
Yeah.
I think that's a little special.
So I'm willing to give the crown to Anne parade.
Let's give it to Emma Brad.
All right, Anne parade, winner of 2008.
That was actually a fierce year.
Yeah, there was some competition that year for sure.
There were some contenders that year.
>> Yeah, actually.
2009, we get a breather of sorts.
We get one harvest moon, one room factory,
and one farming simulator.
Farmings, let's get to 2010, sorry, I'm just scrolling.
No, wait, what?
Sorry, ignore me, ignore me.
Farming simulator 2009, PC, it's still farming simulator,
Mm-hmm.
but now we get more crops, canola, why would that canola?
[laughter]
Barley and corn, it's okay.
Can all this kind of a big thing, I don't know.
No, it is just, I don't know.
When I think of crops like, you know, you would think you'd go to the tomatoes or potatoes,
you know, like the common ones.
I think those take like more, because like tomatoes and stuff, I think that they, you can't just like thrush them or whatever the way that you can with these other things. Like you can just
Yeah
drive a truck over barley and wheat and canola and corn.
Yeah, you're right. You're right. That's probably actually it's just probably purely mechanical why that makes sense
um, okay Um, that's how yeah heart farming simulator
Harvest moon hero of leaf valley
Enhanced remake of save the homeland. Oh
Huh, wait wait. What's your other comment? I'm not I don't understand what you're saying. Can you play?
Oh, so instead, so instead of the Homeland, you basically have one year or else like a resort is going to be made at the end of that year, say the year to save the homeland.
In this game, you are a hero if you stop a theme park from being made. So some people come in, they're like, we're going to make a theme park here in two years, and you're like, no, so you stop that from happening.
And IGN said the quote, the complaint.
The controls can be frustrating at times, but that quote, I had a hard time putting it down.
So that's a great question.
what was this DS or we do you know here I'll do let me see oh okay yes so this was ps also ps to it earth yeah ps psp psp uh come
If it's the save of the homeland, you know, save the homeland was PS2.
Oh, there we go. Interesting. Yeah, I don't know. That sure is a thing. There's also room factory 3, which they said had a Metacritic score of 77. I never saw a Metacritic score for any of the farming simulator, so I didn't put those down. Harvest Moon here of Leaf Valley had 74,
but room factory 3 with a score of 77. Quote, "The game presents the central theme of delicate balance of nature and introduces the conflict between humans and the
of their races, the protagonist, Micah and Micah. Micah discovers that he is half monster and decides to keep his, you know what, I love him anyway, decides to keep his true nature a secret from other villagers. His goal is to revive the strange, Sharon's tree, Sharon's, whatever.
ahhh my god
So I was saying I wish we'd seen it earlier because maybe we could have gotten into record just this just this one sound by
Okay, go ahead, sorry
I didn't know that my mica
And one of the two.
A tree and prevent the surrounding land from decaying while also attempting to rebuild the trust between the univir and the humans. I like the setup. It has a it has a it has a pyrometacritic score.
You know what? I like that setup. That's a good setup. I like it a lot. Mike is in it
I think that wins. I know we got to do a I need to need to do a retro harvest of that.
I want to play a mic a game. That's a good room for you to revisit it. Yeah, yep
Yeah, we got we got to think of I don't know what the name is but we'll think of we'll go up Well, there's got to be a good name there somewhere. Okay. That's 2009 congratulations, Mike. You took the crown
He's like, he's, uh,
You take the crown every day in my heart though um 2010
He's gone for like a living deck he's going all in so he's gone he's down for it so go check out my car that's Micah the Brave on Twitch and everywhere else where Micah is um okay uh 2010 the new new decade new new
Micah is streaming, um,
D. A right now. So folks were interested.
Not at this moment. I don't know,
but folks should if folks are interested in Z.
I might actually watch because I don't want to play it.
So I might do that.
Okay. Okay.
Farmings ah okay I was so thrown off when I was reading the list because farming simulator does the thing that some other like the sports games have done where we're so far ahead We're releasing next year's game now because farming simulator 2011 release in 2010 Oh my gosh 18 hours
Yeah
Yes
Yeah, this is also the beginning of they started doing in 2011 they started doing this thing where every other year
They would do a mobile game
So 2011 is the PC game and then 2012 is the mobile 2013's PC 2014's mobile that kind of thing
Oh, that's best.
So yeah, this one they add 18 hour days
You keep there's more machines. You can have a bigger farm
They also this is the first mention of cows, so I think that you can this might have been the first beginning of cows
And also multiplayer
Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, mostly player. That's a big one. You're good for your performance, isn't it?
Uh, okay. I didn't realize that harvest moon. I know we had trio of towns. We've had many games with only one town.
[laughter]
Yeah.
But nobody told me that we had harvest moon, the tale of two towns, both on DS and 3DS.
To-- yep.
So it came out, I think the DS score had 63 and then the 3DS had 68.
So I think it came out initially on the DS,
but then it was one of the 3DS launch titles,
if I wanted-- I'm thinking that's my brain, says that.
probably tail of two towns. There's three, three tees.
And then the three.
3DS also added some new features that weren't in the first one including alpacas and honeybees and a pickle pot that you can use to make pickled turnips and I just wanted to read so this is one of those like I didn't know that this game existed and the story of this game is hilarious so hundreds of quotes hundreds of years before the events of the game.
Ooh, pickling.
The towns of Bluebell and Konohana were once friendly neighbor towns connected by a tunnel through a large hill.
However, fierce arguments arose over which towns cooking was superior to the others.
That happened. That's real.
During during one specific confrontation the harvest goddess grew tired of the bickering and destroyed the tunnel cutting off a majority of the towns contact centuries later the towns are still bitter rivals only communicating during a weekly cooking festival.
Yeah, this is like Toronto and Montreal with their forma off and of yours.
Oh my gosh, yeah
Oh, that's good. I like that. That's strong. Um, okay. I mean, only one of these games introduced honeybees. So, you know, Harvest Moon, Tale of Two Towns, 3DS version specifically. You take the crown. That's a fun. I like that, uh, that's set out. That's a fun premise.
I feel like I might just say at this point, you know, farming simulator, you've been do it a lot.
I don't think it's going to win any of the years.
I mean, well, this is the problem, right? We we we did one farming simulator episode. I recall it was Johnny and I don't know who else. It was you. Oh, it was you that. Yeah. Uh, but we're not we're clearly not, you know, geared towards the farming simulator crown. Um, there might be one year, uh, depends on the competition. There's one I might give it to, but we'll get there when we get there.
It was me and Johnny. Yeah
I don't think it's gonna win in here so I think I
- Yeah.
- Okay.
Okay.
Well, it's 2011. We're getting there. We're in the same decade at the end. We're again.
We're in there. Yeah. Runefactory tides of destiny. We and PS3. Oh, hello. You boy and girl. No, no four girl version. Aiden or Sonya. Where's it's on. I don't know. I'm guessing Sonya. You're traveling on the giant beast named Ymir. Um, you can raise sucking islands and ships from the sea. Hey,
Oh yeah, 'cause this ends at 2018.
So we're going, we're going.
are able to farm fight using a real time battle system in formulation ships. Um, I let me, you know,
I want a visual of this because the other competition is farming simulator on the 3DS for 2012.
What does that even look like? Hold on. Um, that's crazy. I guess mobile gaming still was in infancy back then. Um, we were definitely not going to do farming simulator on mobile.
Huh. It actually looks decent on the 3DS. Farming simulator better than I would have expected.
I'm still going to give it to room factory.
Um, well, I'll beat it. Um, I mean, sure. Sure. Yeah, I'm just, I'm impressed. I'm curious what this looks like.
We're getting all that some anime anime. That's a good anime stuff. There's a lot of ocean as the game implies what I'm wondering. If you're traveling on this beast, where, uh, where's the Bachelorette's coming or bachelor's bachelor? It's the, the, you know, candidates where they coming in. Oh,
They can raise sunken islands and ships, so maybe
Okay, yes, sure. So you're up, you're up, fish up a potential wife today. Okay. That's how, that's how you do.
Yep
Uh, all right, congratulations.
I just I like the idea of you know because like before that all of the games were like oh you're either
On an island or on land and tides of destiny was like hear me out
[laughs]
You're not on either
Okay, so it wins it
Alright, here we go. Uh, 2012. Oh, oh, okay. This is both we're getting good and also there's the clear winner like
Car like we got strong contenders within a tight among them. Um
Okay, farming similar to 2013 on PC, but then later Xbox and PlayStation
up to ten other players multi-player that
Yeah, that was cool. They had they also added mods. They also added chicken sheep and cows
actually really impressive wow um yeah okay rune fact before that's the special one even I know that's the special one that got like multiple remakes and re releases um oh no that's not the Titan it's not no I'm just saying I know it's a special one it is a strong one that's I'm saying we got some content
The end
Really
That's not what I thought the Titan was gonna be oh
Okay, good good good good. Okay
Okay
players here the other non-tight I haven't even I haven't seen this one what does it look like harvest moon 3D um a new beginning of even though we've had the wait do we not have a yeah we had on 3DS um right yeah tell two towns um okay a new beginning is this where the split happens no not yet okay okay because they go for a more this is where oh you know I think it is I think it's the art style um they because they now they use the more anime rune factory art style I think that's what it is
Well, what's the other not tight?
Nope, we're still not there yet.
I say it's 2014 year that they broke up.
This also adds multiplayer, so it adds a lot more character customization. You can design your house in your furniture
You can customize what the village is going to look like when you first get there
That's cool.
But also just being able to do a multiplayer mode, which is like a it's region free So it's not I think you can do no matter what region you're in which was kind of cool. Yeah
Yeah
That is pretty cool. Um
But none of them are as good as
Yeah, this isn't the game of 2012 This isn't just the game 2012. This is one of the games of my decade This is one of my games of all time because ladies and gentlemen 2012 We got animal crossing newly for the 3DS which is in my opinion still the perfect
Animal crossing game
I agree. I, when New Horizons came out, I was like, I guess this is okay, but new leaf was,
Um
Yep
it was a new leaf. It was so good. I think the only thing that I'm sad about is that they killed Tortimer.
It's
He didn't and he wasn't dead. He was in the island
What have you done? No, he's not dead, but like this is the first one where you become the mayor,
instead of like moving into the town. Yeah.
Yeah Yeah, which was a fun setup
and and Oh my god, where do we?
First of all, this really changed the proportions. You've got, you know, regular-ish proportions now no longer giant head.
Isabelle was introduced. Need I say more? She made it to smash.
We got the island. You could adjust your town not not completely like New Horizons, but you could build landmarks and big projects, the public works projects.
It was just wild world just better in every way and so good. Oh, I think,
I'm going back to new life frequently. I'm just scared to open up my town. Let's see what's there, but it's just it is.
Yeah, just the ultimate form of the original Animal Crossing formula.
Yeah, New Leaf is a 15 out of 10 game for me and winner game the year this year and many years after for me.
We got the welcome amoebo update.
Okay. Okay.
Wow.
I'd see you typing.
Let's see.
Farming Simulator 14.
Now we're on mobile forms on Android iOS.
We got 3DS and the VEDA.
I...
the vida I forgot all about that
I'll be... Did you know... Did you know VEDA means life?
Did you know that?
Oh, um, get those special SD cards, proprietary SD cards.
I never played a farm so that I can't say no winner.
You hate to see it.
Okay, that's fine. I'll give it to Cody.
- Yeah, so I wrote "No Winter."
I mean, I think it's whatever,
but I just know it's just the same thing.
I just look, I'd rather say "No Winter."
Okay um
They didn't add anything like legit.
The next year, I'm happy about what they added the next year, so it might actually win this next year.
I don't know, we'll see, we'll see.
Mmm. Okay. Um, okay, 2014. This is I finally reached it. The second branching paths for story of seasons and harvest monas, story of seasons is born on 3DS. Um, let's get to it. Um,
you're bored with regular life and there's you recruitment of farmers in Oak tree town.
I guess it is all the sound familiar and you can go there to the small village.
To meet the mayor and start up farming, and oh wow, I'm just reading your quote here from a a one of the
Metacritic or whatever for better and worse. It's the harvest moon and all but name with a few useful new ideas But still the same old crop of problems
Okay, you know what I'm gonna let you know a little secret
Back when the 3DS eShop was closing I rush to buy a handful of games I'm by hand for a minute
Mm-hmm.
That I wanted Story of Seasons is one of them because I said you know what I want to go back and play it I have actually fired this up in one point I have touched this game I was going to do that sort of bring it up, but I didn't get to it So I haven't discussed it, but I have touched this game I liked it so far. It felt very story of seasons harvest moony
Okay, okay.
Mm-hmm.
Ooh.
You know, I can't compare to all these other ones, but the bones skeleton was all there, so I like it
So just from the brief bits I played I give it a thumbs up
But again, that is without you know, there might be loss of quality of life stuff from other games. I don't know
All right, let's see what else we got. This is getting 2014 get farming simulator 15 on the PC
leave
So this one also, this one, this one added forestry.
Oh
So that to me, I'm actually, it's in the running.
For me, you know, earlier I was like, oh, we should just call, call farming simulator out.
No, this to me, like, adding forestry as agriculture.
A lot of people when you think of agriculture, you don't think of forestry, but it is an agriculture thing.
Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Like, so I don't play farming simulations, but I still respect it. Like, I think they do their stuff well. And like that forestry. I think that's cool. Doing realistic stuff. I think that is cool.
Yeah. Yeah.
So, you know, yeah, I definitely know shade to farming simulator, because that may be the mobile ones. I don't know. But in general, like, yeah, I respect it.
But this is a PC here.
So.
Yeah, it's one of those, it's one of those, the serious ones. All Also, so we got story of seasons, but we also got Harvest Moon, the lost Valley, one of the, uh, the now, the Harvest Moon,
that's like the opposite where it's nothing, Harvest Moon, but in name, nothing, but in name. Um, yeah, but not the,
so it's still Natsume but it they lost like the Titan like the all of the the effort went with Marvelous right yeah so this is when Natsume and Marvelous like split I think yeah so this is when Natsume no longer ports and Natsume
Well Marvelous was were like the original developers yeah yeah not to me was just porting them from what I recall yeah right so they we can do it who needs that marvelous screw we can do it yeah you go to Hillsville a village locate it up in the mountains, stuck in an internal winter, that makes it hard to farm. You meet a harvest sprite named Rowan, who requests their help in reviving the village. Pete and Claire, weren't those names used for more? Oh, okay, anyways. You can modify your house, that's nice, and you can do, oh wow, you can already terrain elevations and building locations, that's pretty impressive for 2014 to be honest. And yeah, you know, other standard farming stuff.
was trying to make their own things and they ended up with a Metacritic score of 46
No, I don't think so.
Who gets the crown?
I would give it to farming simulator 15 actually.
Not the, uh, yeah, um, I want to give it to story of seasons, but I can't like
objectively in good conscience do it because I only touched it very briefly.
Do we want to do we want to do a tidier then?
Uh, I think, you know what, uh, I want farming simulator to have at least one year.
Okay, we'll give it this year.
I do, it deserves it.
So farming simp the 15 because you introduce trees, the novel.
Well, wait, we're coming down next year!
No, I'm doing it again.
No, no, oh, you don't want to give 2015 or farming Sim 16 on the Kindle Fire?
the Kindle Fire. No, I don't want to give it a crown.
You don't want to give it a crown?
Okay, there's only five crops. Okay, you know boo. No, that's yeah, that's a major downgrade
Yeah, it's a downgrade. So 2015, no winner. 2014, uh, farming simulator one, 2015,
no winner. The only game that we had in 2015 was farming simulator. 2016, it's a no brainer who wins, but we'll mention the other. There's a sweet of other games, and we'll we'll mention those too.
Okay, you know what some of these games got discussed on the podcast because it was
Look you you guys know what happens. This is the before and after times this we are now entering the ASV era of the world
Because 2016 we get I'll just go down the list harvest moon sky tree village for 3DS harvest moon seeds of memories again Remember this is now no longer marvelous. Not so many
Story of seasons tree of crowns. We did several episodes of that at the beginning of this series
I believe the second game covered actually
Farming simulator 17 for PC ps4 and the X bone. Oh, yeah
Wait, hold on. I'm sorry. I'm just reading comment under here. First introduce a female character I didn't know there were actually people in Farmy, Simulae
Yeah, that, oh, yeah, no, when you're, when you play farming, like you have a person.
Okay, I thought it was like management style like click and go the truck. Okay, oh
No, you, you actually pilot the things.
Oh, why did we never get for girls before?
And that, yeah, so this is, uh, 2015 was the first year that they had a female character that you could play as.
Okay. Okay. Sorry. Dylant or Dylant, Dylant, just time planet. I remember that one. I believe that game is also covered on the harvest season. It is not harvest season episodes. I'm excited. Zena on Android and iOS. Dragon Quest Builders on every Sony device imaginable. Android, iOS and Switch.
Dayland. Thanks, so.
[laughing]
Good ahead is that thing was out of the--
the PSP, jeez. And then a game they call, you may have heard of it called Stardew Valley,
came out in 2016. Okay, so, so yeah, a tree of trance got a lot of love, I remember.
I don't know her. I mean, all the other games value an effort, but they had no way, they have no, they had no way of knowing what was coming.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, this was-- this was not the iceberg, because you could see the iceberg.
This was the iceberg like
It was the ice climber's final smash with the J-E-E-E-S-B-B-B-B-Z
Yeah, this, yeah. This was the iceberg. Yeah. So I think the only other things that I would mention about some of these previous games is in Harvest Moon seeds of memories on iOS and Android,
you can befriend a bobcat. And I think that that's cool, but other than that,
Ooh, that's good. That's good.
we've mentioned some of these other games on the podcast and they do exist, but
of towns go worthy of a revisit, in my opinion probably. I think three towns that's cool.
yeah.
Idea, Dragon Quest Builders, a good start. I'll say that. It's a good start. Too bad you came out to the year of Stardew Valley. You might have had a shot at DQB, but Stardew, you really wrote Yup with the period, and that is all that needs to be said about Stardew Valley.
That's what literally all I wrote was, yeah.
the reason we exist as in the show.
Oh, okay. Yeah, but I think that's good for 26. I just feel so bad because everyone else has to compete with Stardew Valley.
All right, 2017 Harvest Moon Light of Hope for the PC and later in Switch and PS4 in 2018.
Yeah, so I do like that the second player, excuse me, in the special edition there's a playable character that can be controlled by a second player, which is kind of cool.
I remember this one was not great. I'm hearing a talk about it on the show actually.
That is fun. That is a fun idea. I like that you're right.
Still doesn't matter though.
Yeah, this is not farming similar 18 from the mobile version for Android iOS 3DS.
Ooh, you can go sunflowers. I like sunflowers, but in pigs.
I do like the animal trailers. So I'm interested to see how they do it in this game, but
as someone who grew up on a ranch, people sleep on how difficult it can be to get animals into
Yeah I can imagine I have a puppy and like that's already hard as it is to control that thing. Yup. Yup. Nebby get in the bag! Yeah, but it's a mobile one so yeah. But what about with a...
yeah, imagine if your puppy is a horse that doesn't want to get in the trailer, you have to get them in the trailer.
So that's interesting.
But.
power of the Nintendo Switch, we can have mobile and console because farming simulator hit the Nintendo Switch. I thought it was later but maybe I'm just catching up in years 2017. Oh yeah, we're actually near the end army.
Okay, farming simulator Nintendo Switch. I don't know, I don't know.
Yeah, there's nothing specific about it. There's nothing, whatever. So it's just
You couldn't farm as Mario sadly.
- Slime rancher.
- Yeah, that's the game I know of,
but I've never played or no much about, really,
other than you ranch slimes.
But they're cute.
But it has, I actually, as I was looking at slime rencher, it is considered overwhelmingly positive on steam.
Yeah, it's also a shooter isn't it or you suck up the the slides or something you have a guns first-person shooter type of thing
Yeah.
Which is obviously different from our standard fair, but there you go
Gosh, I I vaguely remember this next when yonder the cloud can't your chronicles
Well, is this
Yeah, I don't remember this at all. What is that? That's like a big
Is that a moose? I think it is a moose
I don't know.
Looking at art here Primary the goal is seeking collect magical creatures known as sprites to banish ominous and ominous shroud known as the merc What what a name the merc?
Throughout the adventure the player can take part in activities like farming fishing and crafting while exploring the island
Okay, so we've got actually I
Might just want to give it well, okay, on my opinion is either farming sim Nintendo Switch
Line rancher Yeah, that's like take away
I think it's lime ranger. I think that people will riot if we don't choose slime rancher. I've heard so many good things about this game Even though I haven't played it
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
So it's got to be slime rancher I I mean it's one of those games. I want to go back and play because I've heard so many good things about it
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's true. I mean farming rancher to or slime rancher to excuse me is coming out and people are hyped
People are so hyped
Okay 2018 is our last year we made a people we made it to the end
The last melon
Farming simulator 19 on the PC
Farming simulated Commodore 64. That's a fun idea on the retro version
Yeah, so that's nuts. So it's a super retro version. The images were crazy
Super super cool, but man
And I feel like one of those things that was started out as an April fools joke, but they said, but we'll do it for real though on. But anyways, that's that's good. Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I'm not surprised.
Like the farming simulator group of people,
like they have so many mods and stuff.
Someone probably made this as a mod and then it just like exploded.
Yeah.
Probably.
And so they just made it for real real.
Okay, farm together, um, for Windows Max team and OS grow your own farm by yourself or cooperate with your friends in this unique relaxing farming experience.
I'm going to say this is probably not that unique. It looks like generic mobile game art, to be honest, that's all I can say about it.
Garden pause for the PC. I remember this one. I believe we this one got an episode
Yeah. Yeah, I played this one. I recommend it. It's 20 bucks. I really thought that you basically have your own little shop. And people come in and there's like a line of cute little characters that come and buy all your stuff. And it's really, I really enjoy this game. I actually kind of want to jump back into it. Um.
Sure. It looks cute. It's good. Like those are big eyeballs on all these animal creatures.
Yeah.
But it's charming. Okay. That's all nice and lovely, but sorry, this is another year where,
you know, I might have some interesting ones, but there's a Titan among all of you,
and that is Dragon Quest Builders 2. I talked about that game at length. I adore that game.
I mean, I suggest people go back and watch the episode, but it's Minecraft in its ultimate form.
Like, really, I don't have a better way to say it. Like, it did Dragon Quest Builders 1 better.
Like, let's think things even better. I had a good story. How on Earth did this game have a good story?
I don't know, but it did. Yeah, it's a good game. And hey, if nothing else for, you know, if you guys aren't that interested,
And I'll just say this, "Procopia is built off this thing."
This game is a good one.
Yeah, I have not played it, but I've heard only good things, so that is clearly the the winner of 2018.
Even when "Procopia" comes up, I will still recommend drawing Quest Builders too.
It's a credible game of what it's so much.
Okay.
All right.
So, we've reached the end.
You know what I'm crazy, Perce.
I'm going to do it.
Run down to the winners.
I'm going down.
96.
Harvest Moon.
Congratulations.
57.
97.
Harvest Moon GB
98.
No winner.
99.
Harvest Moon 64.
2000.
Harvest Moon 4.
2001.
Animal Crossing.
For Original.
2002.
Nothing.
2003.
A wonderful life.
A Harvest Moon.
A wonderful life for the GameCube.
2004.
No winner.
2005.
Animal Crossing Wild World.
2006.
Room Factory D.
for DS, 2007.
Harvest Moon tree of tranquility for the Wii.
Let's see, oh my gosh, this is a big year.
2008 goes to Harvest Moon Amaporade for the Wii.
2009 goes to Rune Factory 3.
2010 goes to Harvest Moon, the tale of two towns.
2011, Rune Factory, the tides of destiny for Wii and PS3.
2012, Animal Crossing New Leaf.
2013, no winner.
the winner. Uh, 2014 goes to far.
I feel pretty good about those lists. Um, that's a healthy mix of games. Um, yep.
Yeah
Yeah, we we switched it up and I think also because we didn't have to I think there's at least four years if not five years that there were options and we were like no
Yeah, yeah, you aren't good. Oh
I'm not gonna give an award to something just because it was all by its Wilson
The luminous thing is very sketched. It's not a good feeling
Yep, not a good feeling.
I'd rather have nothing
We did it two hour long episode.
Okay, we did it Cody. We did it. Oh, yeah, Cody
I think I didn't do a swear either.
I don't think there's a single swear.
Al has there's at least one hip-hop in your house to fix in this recording
Not not actual hip-hop as in technically go
I mean, I mean, I'm excited to actually want to go back and play some of these games.
Cody, do you have anything to say to the audience to share her?
Some of these games I didn't even know existed, so let's talk about that.
Yeah, yeah, well a lot of those 3DS ones called to me like the story of season ones. I don't know what it is, but we'll see
Yep.
The other thing that I would say is if you are an American listener and if you're listening this before November 4th, which is Election Day. Get out and vote in your local
election. A lot of the state Supreme Court judges are up for this this round and it is super important to
make sure that we retain the judges that are good.
Change the judges that we can or keep the ones
Retain the judges. Yeah, retain the judges that are good and vote no. Do not retain on judges that might have done done bad things.
Yeah
Yeah, because you know, I appreciate it when you can swap out of touch
I appreciate that a lot
- Yeah, when you can actually actually make a change,
yeah, Pennsylvania has some Supreme Court judges that did some good things that are up for it.
Yeah
So that's the only thing I would say.
Oh, all right, um, you can
Oh gosh, no, no, I don't feel I feel much more frivolous now. I don't have anything like that
Oh, it's fine.
I don't have anything deep
It doesn't have to be deep.
Check I Yeah, no, I mean people expect that with me already. Yeah, I'm I'm a coop present whatever go go find me. Am I?
There's so many good fan artists of ZA all the okay, you know what I'm a small spoiler
this. OK. Yeah. I love the Megastarmies. That was I almost asked you earlier if Megastarmy is haunting your dreams. Oh no. It's pretty cute. I love it.
for ZA for Legends EA for list. There's I know you're not gonna play so you don't okay. Have you seen Megastarmy?
Okay, there is so much Megastarmy out there, and it's all incredible
I don't know if I'd say haunting
I'm high. I'm high. I love a love it. It's great. It's ridiculous
Okay, so go check go to Cooper Prez. That's why I just quit. It's art. Whatever go check out my car. Good friend. Micah. He's a stream in Z. A
Yeah, watch Micah at Micah the Brave stream on the Stream ZA on Twitch.
And and whereas other stuff he makes good art in funny content He's a good person even if he is a half monster. I didn't know that you know learning lore about him this
I mean, he plays a lot of monster hunter.
This episode
He does he plus and monster rancher and you know feel like there's a few words we can interchange you yeah, you know I love all that too So I don't want to blame
I think there's a theme here, yeah.
Are you also half monster?
Maybe I might be um, but what what what more terrifying monsters that a man one would some could say
Oh yikes!
Well, you are one of the good ones kind of so keep being you.
All right, if you want more of the monsters on this show that you've come to know and love
Slash loathe But years yet you hate listens or still listens or count those
Go follow the show at ths pod on tumblr and blue sky
Go to harvest season dot club for feedback
And all the links to the show the feedback form is working a good confirmation from Al I there's nothing wrong with the feedback form I just I'm just used to emails but go drop a message drop done questions
Comments I like those they're funny. They make me laugh
Yeah, if you're upset that we didn't give a year to one of your favorite games, maybe tell us some of these games. I'm like, man, I haven't played them. Let's just pick one. So if you have a cool story about one of these games, share it and maybe we'll have a update in a future game where we get y'all speed back.
Yeah. Yeah. Or fill in, or fill in the blank years, find a game, even if it's not cottagecore and give it to like what was it? 98 would give it to a Korean. I guess I didn't say that.
Yeah
Yeah. I'll Korean official. Yeah. Yep. Okay. Um, also go to patreon.com slash
Yeah, yeah true if or if there's a game that we didn't cover that you think is really good that was part of some of these years or whatever
THS pod where you can get access to the slack where there's many cool people hanging out.
That that places hop in these days. Um, that's great. Um, you can talk to all the hosts and various other cool people who are there. Um, I love the cool people who are not the hosts because I don't obligated to be there like us. Um, yeah, they're there because they like us supposedly. Um, or do that. Maybe they're out all bots. But yeah, I don't know. Um, or you can all get access to the greenhouse. Um, our catalog of non-codge core stuff. There's a lot of good episodes,
It really is, I love it.
Yeah, they get to, they get to choose.
not all of it is time sensitive. You can go back. We promise you more episodes. We will get there.
We just did a two hour episode. We will not be recording one today. We have many ideas. They will happen. And again, that is patreon.com slash THS pod where you can support the show and get access to like good stuff. Um, but with that, thank you Cody for being on and going through this holy
Now we have ideas, so we will discuss.
we did it. Thank you all for having us on and editing this. Have fun. Um, and, uh, but until then,
[chuckles]
Thank you.
the snare's have a good heart of
Have a good harvest.
The Harvest Season is created by Alma Henry, with support from our patrons, including our pro farmers, Kevin, Stuart and Alisa.
Our art is done by Micah the Brave, and our music is done by Nick Burgess.
Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed in this episode.
This will be fun to try and do.
Ha ha ha ha!
I'm actually kind of glad that we didn't do it before puppy class because I feel like we would not have gotten that far.
Yeah, that's why I made the call, like, nah, we don't, we don't got time for that.
Yeah, we ain't nobody got time for that. Um.
Time to have dinner. Oh, oh, you saw the Maisie Mouse art, isn't it the cutest?
It is so cute.
So, just go, like, it has like a very like catchy themes, like Maisie Mouse, Maisie Mouse, I don't remember.
Just go, like, go listen to that thing. My sister, it was like a kid show in my sister
real little, so it's very fond in her fart. Oh, there's your post credits people, go listen to go, go look up Maisie Mouse. I'm gonna show you more art. Okay, that's it. We're done now. Let's stop recording. Yeah.
I would also, another, another thing that I would suggest, not mezie males, have you ever seen Sog with the Siamese Chinese cat or whatever?
Yes. Oh, Sago is good. Like, Maisie is very, very like, you can kind of talk from the arts,
I love Sogua, so...
very, very like little, little kid and like, very big, they don't talk. They make like adorable sounds.
Yeah, oh, okay, okay, it's a little different, okay.
I was like, there's full plots and stuff. I am, I am Sago. Yeah. Um, that's, uh, yeah. All right, take care of one.
I love Sogua.
Cool, okay.
Who to ours?
I'm, uh, oh, I gotta upload this one. Actually, Val's gonna want this. All right, I'm gonna go eat and then I'm gonna